\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename elfeed-ai.info
@settitle elfeed-ai: AI-powered content curation for elfeed
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* elfeed-ai: (elfeed-ai). AI-powered content curation for elfeed.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top elfeed-ai: AI-powered content curation for elfeed

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp file @samp{elfeed-ai.el}. @*

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Faces::
* Transient menu::
* elfeed-tube integration::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Overview

* Quick start::

User options

* Interest profile::
* Scoring behavior::
* Budget::
* Tags::
* AI backend and model::
* Display::

Commands

* Enabling the mode::
* Scoring entries::
* Scoring unscored entries::
* Checking budget status::
* Toggling sort order::

Functions

* Scoring::
* Search buffer display::
* Sorting::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@samp{elfeed-ai.el} adds AI-powered content curation to @uref{https://github.com/skeeto/elfeed, elfeed}, the Emacs @*
feed reader.  It solves the problem of information overload: rather @*
than manually scanning every entry in your feeds, you describe your @*
interests once in natural language, and @samp{elfeed-ai} continuously @*
evaluates new entries and surfaces only the content that matters to @*
you. @*

The package uses @uref{https://github.com/karthink/gptel, gptel} to send each entry's title and content to a @*
language model, which returns a relevance score between 0.0 and 1.0 @*
and, optionally, a brief summary.  If @code{elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold} @*
is set, entries scoring at or above the threshold are tagged (by @*
default with @code{elfeed-ai}), which you can use in elfeed's standard @*
search filter syntax to view only curated content. @*

@samp{elfeed-ai} integrates with elfeed through three mechanisms: @*

@itemize
@item
@strong{Automatic scoring} via @code{elfeed-new-entry-hook}.  When new entries @*
arrive during an elfeed update, they are queued and scored @*
asynchronously one at a time.  Each scored entry receives an AI @*
relevance score and a brief summary, stored as @code{elfeed-meta} @*
properties (@ref{Scoring entries}). @*

@item
@strong{Search buffer column}.  A custom @*
@code{elfeed-search-print-entry-function} adds a score column between the @*
date and title, with color-coded faces for high and low scores @*
(@ref{Faces}). @*

@item
@strong{Show buffer summary}.  After-advice on @code{elfeed-show-refresh} @*
injects the AI-generated summary above the original content, giving @*
you a quick overview before reading the full entry. @*
@end itemize

A daily budget system prevents runaway API costs.  The budget can @*
track either estimated tokens or actual dollar cost (the latter @*
requires @samp{gptel-plus}), and resets at a configurable hour each day @*
(@ref{Budget}). @*

The package also provides a @uref{https://github.com/magit/transient, transient} menu for interactive adjustment @*
of all settings (@ref{Transient menu}). @*

Dependencies: @samp{elfeed} (3.4.1+), @samp{gptel} (0.9+), @samp{transient} (0.7+), @*
Emacs 29.1 or later. @*

@menu
* Quick start::
@end menu

@node Quick start
@section Quick start

@lisp
(require 'elfeed-ai)

(setq elfeed-ai-interest-profile
      "AI safety, Emacs, functional programming, philosophy of mind,
       effective altruism, longevity research")

(elfeed-ai-mode 1)
@end lisp

New entries are scored automatically when elfeed fetches them.  Scores @*
are stored as entry metadata, so you can sort the search buffer by @*
relevance. @*

To also filter by relevance, set @code{elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold} to a @*
value between 0.0 and 1.0 (e.g., @code{0.5}).  Entries scoring at or above @*
the threshold are tagged with @code{elfeed-ai-score-tag} (default @*
@code{elfeed-ai}), which you can use in elfeed search filters: @*

@example
+elfeed-ai +unread
@end example

You can also point @code{elfeed-ai-interest-profile} at a file containing a @*
longer profile (@ref{Interest profile}).  To score entries that arrived @*
before you enabled the mode, use @samp{M-x elfeed-ai-score-unscored} @*
(@ref{Scoring unscored entries}). @*

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Interest profile::
* Scoring behavior::
* Budget::
* Tags::
* AI backend and model::
* Display::
@end menu

@node Interest profile
@section Interest profile

@vindex elfeed-ai-interest-profile
The user option @code{elfeed-ai-interest-profile} is a free-form string @*
describing your interests in natural language.  This string is included @*
verbatim in every AI scoring prompt, so the more specific and @*
descriptive it is, the better the model can judge relevance. @*

The value accepts two forms: @*

@itemize
@item
An inline string (e.g., @code{"AI safety, Emacs, functional programming"}). @*
@item
A file path pointing to a readable file whose contents are used as @*
the profile text.  This is useful for lengthy, detailed profiles @*
that would be unwieldy as a Lisp string. @*
@end itemize

When the value is empty, scoring is skipped entirely---no API calls @*
are made.  The default value is an empty string. @*

The type is @code{(choice string file)}. @*

@node Scoring behavior
@section Scoring behavior

@vindex elfeed-ai-auto-score
@vindex elfeed-ai-generate-summary
@vindex elfeed-ai-summary-prompt
@vindex elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold
@vindex elfeed-ai-score-unscored-days
@vindex elfeed-ai-max-content-length
The user option @code{elfeed-ai-auto-score} controls whether new entries are @*
automatically queued for scoring as they arrive via @*
@code{elfeed-new-entry-hook}.  The default is @code{t}.  Set it to @code{nil} if you @*
prefer to score entries manually with @code{elfeed-ai-score} (@ref{Scoring entries, , Scoring @*
entries}). @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-generate-summary} controls whether the AI @*
produces a short summary alongside the relevance score.  The default @*
is @code{t}.  Summaries are displayed in the show buffer above the original @*
content.  Setting this to @code{nil} reduces token usage per entry, which @*
is useful if you are on a tight budget (@ref{Budget}) or only care about @*
the score. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-summary-prompt} is the instruction appended @*
to the scoring prompt that describes what the summary should contain. @*
It is only used when @code{elfeed-ai-generate-summary} is non-nil.  The @*
text is inserted after the request for a @code{"summary"} JSON key, so it @*
should describe the desired content and length of the summary rather @*
than repeating structural instructions.  The default value is @*
@code{"a 1-3 sentence summary of the content"}.  You might change this to, @*
for example, @code{"a one-paragraph explanation of why this is relevant to
the user's interests"} to get more targeted summaries.  The type is @*
@code{string}. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold} sets the minimum AI @*
score (a float between 0.0 and 1.0) for an entry to receive the @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-tag} tag.  When @code{nil} (the default), no tags are @*
added and entries are scored only---you can still sort by score and @*
view summaries.  When set to a number, entries scoring at or above the @*
threshold are tagged, and entries scoring below it are not tagged.  In @*
both cases, the score is stored in @code{elfeed-meta}. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-score-unscored-days} specifies the default @*
number of days to look back when invoking @code{elfeed-ai-score-unscored} @*
(@ref{Scoring unscored entries}).  The default is @code{7}.  With a prefix @*
argument, the command prompts for a custom number of days, ignoring @*
this option. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-max-content-length} sets the maximum number @*
of characters of entry content sent to the AI@.  Longer content is @*
truncated.  The default is @code{4000}.  Increasing this value gives the @*
model more context for judging relevance, at the cost of higher token @*
usage. @*

@node Budget
@section Budget

@vindex elfeed-ai-daily-budget
@vindex elfeed-ai-budget-reset-hour
@vindex elfeed-ai-budget-file
The user option @code{elfeed-ai-daily-budget} caps daily API usage.  Its @*
value is a cons cell of the form @code{(TYPE . LIMIT)}, where TYPE is @*
either @code{tokens} or @code{dollars}. @*

In @code{tokens} mode, usage is estimated heuristically at one token per @*
four characters.  This provides a rough safeguard without requiring @*
external cost-tracking infrastructure. @*

In @code{dollars} mode, actual cost is computed via @code{gptel-plus-compute-cost} @*
from the @samp{gptel-plus} package.  If @samp{gptel-plus} is not available, the @*
budget is not enforced and a warning is logged at startup.  Dollar @*
mode also displays the cost of the last 100 scored entries in the @*
transient menu heading (@ref{Transient menu}), helping you calibrate your @*
budget. @*

The default value is @code{(dollars . 1.00)}.  The type is @*
@code{(choice (cons tokens integer) (cons dollars number))}. @*

The obsolete variable @code{elfeed-ai-daily-token-budget} is superseded by @*
@code{elfeed-ai-daily-budget} as of version 0.2.0. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-budget-reset-hour} specifies the hour @*
(0--23) at which the daily budget resets.  If the current hour is @*
before this value, yesterday's date is used for budget tracking, so a @*
late-night scoring session counts against the previous day's budget. @*
The default is @code{0} (midnight). @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-budget-file} specifies the file used to @*
persist daily usage data across Emacs sessions.  The default is @*
@samp{elfeed-ai-budget.eld} in @code{user-emacs-directory}. @*

@node Tags
@section Tags

@vindex elfeed-ai-score-tag
The user option @code{elfeed-ai-score-tag} is the tag added to entries whose @*
AI score meets or exceeds @code{elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold} @*
(@ref{Scoring behavior}).  This tag is only used when @*
@code{elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold} is non-nil.  The default is @*
@code{elfeed-ai}.  You can change this to any symbol, then use it in elfeed @*
search filters (e.g., @samp{+my-custom-tag +unread}). @*

@node AI backend and model
@section AI backend and model

@vindex elfeed-ai-backend
@vindex elfeed-ai-model
The user option @code{elfeed-ai-backend} specifies the gptel backend name @*
for AI scoring (e.g., @code{"Gemini"} or @code{"Claude"}).  When @code{nil}, the @*
backend is inferred: if @code{elfeed-ai-model} is set, @samp{elfeed-ai} searches @*
@code{gptel--known-backends} for a backend that provides that model; if no @*
match is found, it falls back to @code{gptel-backend}.  The default is @*
@code{nil}. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-model} specifies the gptel model for AI @*
scoring (e.g., @code{claude-sonnet-4-5-20250514}).  When @code{nil}, defaults to @*
@code{gptel-model}.  The default is @code{nil}. @*

Both options can be adjusted interactively via the transient menu @*
(@ref{Transient menu}).  Setting these options allows you to use a @*
different (potentially cheaper or faster) model for feed scoring than @*
your default gptel model. @*

@node Display
@section Display

@vindex elfeed-ai-sort-by-score
@vindex elfeed-ai-score-high-threshold
@vindex elfeed-ai-score-low-threshold
The user option @code{elfeed-ai-sort-by-score} controls whether the search @*
buffer is sorted by AI score (highest first) when @code{elfeed-ai-mode} is @*
active.  Unscored entries are sorted after scored ones; entries with @*
equal scores are sorted by date (newest first).  The default is @code{t}. @*
You can toggle sorting at any time with @code{elfeed-ai-toggle-sort} @*
(@ref{Toggling sort order}). @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-score-high-threshold} sets the minimum @*
score for the high-score face.  Scores at or above this value are @*
rendered with @code{elfeed-ai-score-high-face} (@ref{Faces}).  The default is @*
@code{0.7}. @*

The user option @code{elfeed-ai-score-low-threshold} sets the maximum score @*
for the low-score face.  Scores at or below this value are rendered @*
with @code{elfeed-ai-score-low-face} (@ref{Faces}).  The default is @code{0.3}. @*

Scores between the two thresholds use the default @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-face}. @*

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Enabling the mode::
* Scoring entries::
* Scoring unscored entries::
* Checking budget status::
* Toggling sort order::
@end menu

@node Enabling the mode
@section Enabling the mode

@findex elfeed-ai-mode
The command @code{elfeed-ai-mode} is a global minor mode that activates all @*
@samp{elfeed-ai} integrations.  When enabled, it: @*

@itemize
@item
Sets @code{elfeed-search-print-entry-function} to a custom function that @*
displays the AI score column (@ref{Search buffer display}). @*
@item
Installs @code{elfeed-ai-sort} as @code{elfeed-search-sort-function} if @*
@code{elfeed-ai-sort-by-score} is non-nil (@ref{Display}). @*
@item
Adds @code{elfeed-ai--enqueue} to @code{elfeed-new-entry-hook} if @*
@code{elfeed-ai-auto-score} is non-nil (@ref{Scoring behavior}). @*
@item
Advises @code{elfeed-show-refresh} to inject AI summaries. @*
@item
If @samp{elfeed-tube} is available, advises @code{elfeed-tube-show} to @*
re-inject the AI summary after elfeed-tube modifies the show buffer @*
(@ref{elfeed-tube integration}). @*
@end itemize

When disabled, all integrations are cleanly removed and the original @*
print and sort functions are restored.  The pending scoring queue is @*
also cleared. @*

@node Scoring entries
@section Scoring entries

@findex elfeed-ai-score
The command @code{elfeed-ai-score} is a context-sensitive command for @*
scoring entries.  Its behavior depends on the current buffer: @*

@itemize
@item
In the @strong{show buffer}, it scores the displayed entry.  If the entry @*
has already been scored, it signals an error unless called with a @*
prefix argument (@samp{C-u}), which forces a re-score.  After scoring, it @*
refreshes the show buffer to display the new summary. @*

@item
In the @strong{search buffer}, it queues all selected entries (or the entry @*
at point when no region is active) for scoring.  Already-scored @*
entries are skipped unless called with a prefix argument. @*
@end itemize

In both cases, the command reports how many entries were queued and how @*
many were already scored.  Scoring proceeds asynchronously in the @*
background; a message is displayed in the echo area when the batch @*
completes, along with the total cost if dollar tracking is available. @*

@node Scoring unscored entries
@section Scoring unscored entries

@findex elfeed-ai-score-unscored
The command @code{elfeed-ai-score-unscored} walks the entire elfeed @*
database and queues all entries from the last N days that have not yet @*
been scored.  By default, N is the value of @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-unscored-days} (@ref{Scoring behavior}).  With a prefix @*
argument (@samp{C-u}), the command prompts for a custom number of days. @*

This is useful when you first enable @samp{elfeed-ai} on an existing elfeed @*
database, or after changing your interest profile and wanting to @*
re-evaluate recent entries. @*

@node Checking budget status
@section Checking budget status

@findex elfeed-ai-budget-status
The command @code{elfeed-ai-budget-status} displays the current daily usage @*
in the echo area.  In @code{tokens} mode, it shows tokens used versus the @*
limit.  In @code{dollars} mode, it shows the dollar amount used versus the @*
limit.  Both modes show the remaining budget. @*

@node Toggling sort order
@section Toggling sort order

@findex elfeed-ai-toggle-sort
The command @code{elfeed-ai-toggle-sort} switches between sorting the @*
search buffer by AI score (highest first) and the original sort order @*
(typically by date).  When score sorting is enabled, @*
@code{elfeed-search-sort-function} is set to @code{elfeed-ai-sort} @*
(@ref{Sorting}); when disabled, the function saved before @samp{elfeed-ai} @*
modified it is restored. @*

The search buffer is refreshed immediately after toggling.  This @*
command is also available in the transient menu (@ref{Transient menu}). @*

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Scoring::
* Search buffer display::
* Sorting::
@end menu

@node Scoring
@section Scoring

@findex elfeed-ai-score-entry
The function @code{elfeed-ai-score-entry} is the core scoring function.  It @*
takes an elfeed ENTRY and a CALLBACK, sends the entry to the @*
configured AI backend via @code{gptel-request}, and calls CALLBACK with a @*
@code{(score . summary)} cons cell on success or @code{nil} on failure. @*

Before making the API call, the function checks three preconditions: @*
the interest profile must be non-empty, the daily budget must not be @*
exhausted, and the entry must have at least a title or content.  If @*
any check fails, CALLBACK is called with @code{nil} immediately. @*

The function constructs a system message containing the interest @*
profile and scoring instructions, and a user message containing the @*
entry's title, author, and truncated content.  The system message is @*
marked for prompt caching via @code{gptel-use-cache}, so that repeated @*
scoring requests reuse the cached system prompt. @*

On receiving a response, the function parses the JSON, records token @*
and cost usage (@ref{Budget}), stores the score and summary as @*
@code{elfeed-meta} properties on the entry, and, if @*
@code{elfeed-ai-relevance-threshold} is non-nil, applies or removes the @*
relevance tag (@ref{Scoring behavior}). @*

@findex elfeed-ai-budget-exhausted-p
The function @code{elfeed-ai-budget-exhausted-p} returns non-nil if today's @*
budget is exhausted.  This is useful in custom hooks or conditions @*
where you want to check whether scoring will proceed before queuing @*
entries. @*

@node Search buffer display
@section Search buffer display

@findex elfeed-ai-search-print-entry
The function @code{elfeed-ai-search-print-entry} is the custom @*
@code{elfeed-search-print-entry-function} installed by @code{elfeed-ai-mode}. @*
It renders each entry with the standard date, title, feed, and tags @*
columns, plus an additional score column between the date and title. @*

The score column is 6 characters wide.  Scored entries display their @*
score as a four-character float (e.g., @samp{0.85}); unscored entries @*
display =  - =.  The score is propertized with one of three faces @*
depending on the thresholds (@ref{Display}): @*

@itemize
@item
@code{elfeed-ai-score-high-face} for scores at or above @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-high-threshold}. @*
@item
@code{elfeed-ai-score-low-face} for scores at or below @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-low-threshold}. @*
@item
@code{elfeed-ai-score-face} for scores in between, or for unscored @*
entries. @*
@end itemize

@node Sorting
@section Sorting

@findex elfeed-ai-sort
The function @code{elfeed-ai-sort} is the sort predicate installed as @*
@code{elfeed-search-sort-function} when score sorting is active.  It sorts @*
entries by descending AI score, with unscored entries (which have no @*
@code{:ai-score} metadata) placed after all scored entries.  Entries with @*
equal scores are sorted by date (newest first). @*

Internally, unscored entries are assigned a sentinel value of @code{-1.0}, @*
which is below the valid score range of 0.0--1.0, ensuring they @*
always appear last. @*

@node Faces
@chapter Faces

@samp{elfeed-ai} defines four faces for visual presentation of AI data: @*

@itemize
@item
@code{elfeed-ai-score-face} --- the default face for mid-range AI scores @*
in the search buffer.  Inherits from @code{shadow}.  Applied to scores @*
between @code{elfeed-ai-score-low-threshold} and @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-high-threshold}, and to unscored entries. @*

@item
@code{elfeed-ai-score-high-face} --- face for high AI scores in the @*
search buffer.  Inherits from @code{success} with bold weight.  Applied @*
to scores at or above @code{elfeed-ai-score-high-threshold} (default @*
@code{0.7}). @*

@item
@code{elfeed-ai-score-low-face} --- face for low AI scores in the search @*
buffer.  Inherits from @code{shadow}.  Applied to scores at or below @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-low-threshold} (default @code{0.3}). @*

@item
@code{elfeed-ai-summary-heading-face} --- face for the ``AI Summary'' @*
heading in the show buffer.  Inherits from @code{font-lock-keyword-face} @*
with bold weight. @*
@end itemize

You can customize these faces with @samp{M-x customize-face} or by setting @*
them in your init file.  The score thresholds that determine which @*
face is used are controlled by @code{elfeed-ai-score-high-threshold} and @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-low-threshold} (@ref{Display}). @*

@node Transient menu
@chapter Transient menu

@findex elfeed-ai-menu
The command @code{elfeed-ai-menu} opens a @uref{https://github.com/magit/transient, transient} menu providing @*
centralized access to all @samp{elfeed-ai} commands and settings.  The menu @*
is organized into four groups: @*

@itemize
@item
@strong{Score}: commands for scoring the current entry or selection @*
(@code{elfeed-ai-score}, bound to @samp{s}) and for scoring unscored entries @*
(@code{elfeed-ai-score-unscored}, bound to @samp{S}). @*

@item
@strong{Display}: toggles for sort order (@code{elfeed-ai-toggle-sort}, bound to @*
@samp{t}) and the minor mode (@code{elfeed-ai-mode}, bound to @samp{m}). @*

@item
@strong{Scoring}: interactive adjustment of the AI model (@samp{-m}), @*
auto-scoring (@samp{-a}), summary generation (@samp{-s}), relevance threshold @*
(@samp{-r}), max content length (@samp{-l}), and the number of days for @*
@code{elfeed-ai-score-unscored} (@samp{-d}). @*

@item
@strong{Budget}: toggle between token and dollar budget types (@samp{-t}), and @*
set the budget limit (@samp{-b}).  In dollar mode, the group heading @*
displays the total cost of the last 100 scored entries, helping you @*
calibrate the daily limit. @*
@end itemize

Changes made through the transient menu take effect immediately but @*
are not persisted across sessions.  To make them permanent, set the @*
corresponding user options in your init file. @*

You might bind the menu to a convenient key in elfeed: @*

@lisp
(define-key elfeed-search-mode-map (kbd "Y") #'elfeed-ai-menu)
(define-key elfeed-show-mode-map (kbd "Y") #'elfeed-ai-menu)
@end lisp

@node elfeed-tube integration
@chapter elfeed-tube integration

If you use @uref{https://github.com/karthink/elfeed-tube, elfeed-tube} alongside @samp{elfeed-ai}, the two packages @*
interact in the show buffer.  The issue is that @code{elfeed-tube-show} @*
replaces or modifies the show buffer content after @*
@code{elfeed-show-refresh} has already run, which would normally remove the @*
injected AI summary. @*

@samp{elfeed-ai} handles this automatically.  When @code{elfeed-ai-mode} is @*
enabled, it advises @code{elfeed-tube-show} so that the AI summary is @*
re-injected after elfeed-tube finishes its modifications.  This advice @*
is installed eagerly if @samp{elfeed-tube} is already loaded, or deferred @*
via @code{with-eval-after-load} if it has not yet been loaded. @*

No configuration is required on your part: if both packages are @*
installed and their respective modes are active, the integration works @*
transparently. @*

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
