\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename infovore.info
@settitle Infovore: AI-powered content curation for Emacs
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Infovore: (infovore). AI-powered content curation for Emacs.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Infovore: AI-powered content curation for Emacs

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp package @samp{infovore}. @*

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Ebib integration::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Sources configuration::
* AI curation settings::
* Twitter backend settings::
* Scheduling settings::
* Database settings::
* Error handling settings::
* Feed list display settings::

Commands

* Opening the feed::
* Starting and stopping::
* Manual fetching::
* Feed list commands::
* Refreshing and filtering::
* Item detail commands::
* Mode line indicator::

Functions

* Database management::
* Item storage and retrieval::
* Token budget tracking::
* AI scoring pipeline::
* URL normalization and deduplication::
* Logging::
* Fetch with retry::
* Source protocol::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

Infovore is an AI-powered content aggregator and curator that runs @*
entirely inside Emacs.  It fetches content from user-configured sources @*
--- Twitter accounts, RSS feeds, Substack newsletters --- stores @*
everything in a local SQLite database, uses an AI model (via @samp{gptel}) to @*
score each item for relevance against a natural-language interest @*
profile, and presents the curated results in an elfeed-style split-pane @*
interface. @*

The package solves the problem of information overload: rather than @*
manually checking dozens of feeds and accounts, you describe your @*
interests once, and infovore continuously fetches, evaluates, and @*
surfaces only the content that matters to you.  Items that score above a @*
configurable relevance threshold appear in the feed list; everything @*
else is stored but hidden from the default view. @*

Infovore is organized around several cooperating modules: @*

@itemize
@item
@strong{Source plugins} fetch content asynchronously from different platforms. @*
Each source type (RSS, Twitter, Substack) is implemented as an EIEIO @*
class inheriting from an abstract base class defined in @*
@samp{infovore-source.el}.  New source types can be added by subclassing @*
and implementing two generic methods. @*

@item
@strong{Database layer} (@samp{infovore-db.el}) manages all persistence through @*
@samp{emacsql}.  It stores fetched items, tracks @*
read/starred/curated state, and maintains a daily token budget ledger. @*

@item
@strong{AI curation} (@samp{infovore-ai.el}) handles the scoring pipeline.  For @*
each uncurated item, it constructs a prompt containing the user's @*
interest profile and the item's content, sends it to the configured @*
@samp{gptel} backend, parses the JSON response to extract a relevance score @*
and a summary, and updates the database.  A daily token budget @*
prevents runaway API costs. @*

@item
@strong{Feed list view} (@samp{infovore-list.el}) displays curated items in a @*
@samp{tabulated-list-mode} buffer with columns for source type, author, @*
title, score, and relative timestamp. @*

@item
@strong{Item detail view} (@samp{infovore-show.el}) renders either the AI-generated @*
summary or the original content (with HTML rendered via @samp{shr}) in a @*
split buffer below the feed list. @*

@item
@strong{Mode line indicator} (@samp{infovore-modeline.el}) shows the count of @*
unread curated items as @samp{[IV:N]} in the global mode line. @*

@item
@strong{Ebib integration} (@samp{infovore-ebib.el}) is an optional module that @*
lets you save an item's citation metadata to an @samp{ebib} bibliography @*
database via @samp{zotra}. @*
@end itemize

The core dependencies are @samp{gptel} (AI backend), @samp{elfeed} (XML parsing @*
only), @samp{emacsql} (database), and Emacs 29.1 or @*
later (for native @samp{libxml} support and @samp{shr}). @*

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Sources configuration::
* AI curation settings::
* Twitter backend settings::
* Scheduling settings::
* Database settings::
* Error handling settings::
* Feed list display settings::
@end menu

@node Sources configuration
@section Sources configuration

@vindex infovore-sources
The user option @code{infovore-sources} defines the list of content sources @*
that infovore monitors.  Each element is a property list with at least a @*
@code{:type} key specifying the source type (@code{rss}, @code{twitter}, or @code{substack}) @*
and type-specific keys providing the necessary identifiers. @*

The default value is an empty list.  The accepted type is a list of @*
plists.  You must populate this variable for infovore to have anything @*
to fetch.  A typical configuration looks like this: @*

@lisp
(setq infovore-sources
      '((:type rss :url "https://example.com/feed.xml")
        (:type twitter :username "elikiln")
        (:type substack :publication "astralcodexten")))
@end lisp

Each source type requires different keys: @*

@itemize
@item
@code{rss} --- requires @code{:url} (the feed URL). @*
@item
@code{twitter} --- requires @code{:username} (without the @samp{@@} prefix). @*
@item
@code{substack} --- requires @code{:publication} (the subdomain name, e.g. @*
@samp{"astralcodexten"} for @samp{astralcodexten.substack.com}). @*
@end itemize

All types accept an optional @code{:name} key for a custom display name; @*
otherwise the name is derived from the identifier. @*

@node AI curation settings
@section AI curation settings

@vindex infovore-interest-profile
@vindex infovore-relevance-threshold
@vindex infovore-daily-token-budget
@vindex infovore-budget-reset-hour
The user option @code{infovore-interest-profile} is a free-form string @*
describing your interests in natural language.  This string is included @*
verbatim in every AI scoring prompt, so the more specific and @*
descriptive it is, the better the AI can judge relevance.  The default @*
value is an empty string.  When left empty, AI scoring is skipped @*
entirely and items remain uncurated.  A good profile might look like: @*

@lisp
(setq infovore-interest-profile
      "AI safety, Emacs, functional programming, philosophy of mind,
       effective altruism, longevity research")
@end lisp

The user option @code{infovore-relevance-threshold} sets the minimum AI score @*
(a float between 0.0 and 1.0) for an item to appear in the default @*
curated feed view.  The default value is @code{0.5}.  Lowering this value @*
shows more items at the cost of including less relevant content; @*
raising it produces a tighter, more selective feed.  This threshold is @*
used by @code{infovore-list-refresh} when filtering items @*
(@ref{Refreshing and filtering}). @*

The user option @code{infovore-daily-token-budget} caps the estimated number @*
of tokens that infovore will consume per day for AI curation.  The @*
default value is @code{100000}.  Token usage is estimated heuristically (one @*
token per four characters) and tracked both in memory and in the @*
database.  When the budget is exhausted, remaining uncurated items are @*
deferred to the next budget period.  You would increase this value if @*
you have many sources and want more items scored per day, or decrease it @*
to control API costs. @*

The user option @code{infovore-budget-reset-hour} specifies the hour of the @*
day (0--23) at which the daily token budget resets.  The default value is @*
@code{0} (midnight).  If you typically use Emacs late at night, setting this @*
to a later hour (e.g. @code{4}) ensures your budget period aligns with your @*
usage pattern rather than resetting mid-session. @*

@node Twitter backend settings
@section Twitter backend settings

@vindex infovore-twitter-backend
@vindex infovore-twitter-rss-bridge-url
@vindex infovore-twitter-api-bearer-token
@vindex infovore-twitter-scraper-command
The user option @code{infovore-twitter-backend} selects which method infovore @*
uses to fetch tweets.  It accepts one of three symbols: @*

@itemize
@item
@code{rss-bridge} (the default) --- fetches tweets as an Atom feed from a @*
self-hosted RSS-Bridge instance.  This is the recommended approach. @*
@item
@code{api} --- uses the official Twitter API v2 with a bearer token. @*
@item
@code{scraper} --- shells out to an external command-line tool. @*
@end itemize

The user option @code{infovore-twitter-rss-bridge-url} specifies the base URL @*
of your RSS-Bridge instance (e.g. @*
@samp{"https://rss-bridge.example.com"}).  It is required when @*
@code{infovore-twitter-backend} is set to @code{rss-bridge}.  The default value is @*
@code{nil}. @*

The user option @code{infovore-twitter-api-bearer-token} holds the bearer @*
token for the official Twitter API v2.  It is required when @*
@code{infovore-twitter-backend} is set to @code{api}.  The default value is @code{nil}. @*
You obtain this token from the Twitter Developer Portal. @*

The user option @code{infovore-twitter-scraper-command} specifies the @*
executable name or path of an external tweet scraper.  It is required @*
when @code{infovore-twitter-backend} is set to @code{scraper}.  The default value @*
is @code{nil}.  The command is called with the Twitter username as its sole @*
argument and must write a JSON array of tweet objects to standard output. @*
Each object should contain at least @code{id}, @code{text}, @code{created_at}, and @*
@code{url} keys. @*

@node Scheduling settings
@section Scheduling settings

@vindex infovore-fetch-interval
The user option @code{infovore-fetch-interval} controls how many minutes @*
elapse between automatic fetch cycles.  The default value is @code{60}.  The @*
type is an integer.  A lower value means more frequent fetching (and @*
potentially more API usage); a higher value reduces resource @*
consumption.  This option takes effect when @code{infovore-start} is called @*
(@ref{Starting and stopping}). @*

@node Database settings
@section Database settings

@vindex infovore-database-file
The user option @code{infovore-database-file} specifies the path to the @*
SQLite database file.  The default value is @samp{infovore.db} inside @*
@code{user-emacs-directory}.  The type is a file path.  You might change this @*
if you want the database stored on a different disk or outside your @*
Emacs configuration directory.  The database is created automatically on @*
first use. @*

@node Error handling settings
@section Error handling settings

@vindex infovore-max-retries
@vindex infovore-retry-base-delay
The user option @code{infovore-max-retries} sets the maximum number of retry @*
attempts when a fetch request fails.  The default value is @code{3}.  The @*
type is an integer.  After all retries are exhausted, the source is @*
skipped for the current fetch cycle and the failure is logged. @*

The user option @code{infovore-retry-base-delay} sets the base delay in @*
seconds for exponential backoff between retries.  The default value is @*
@code{30}.  The delay for attempt @emph{N} is calculated as @code{(* base-delay (expt
4 N))}, yielding intervals of 30 seconds, 120 seconds, and 480 seconds @*
with the default base delay.  You would increase this if your sources @*
are rate-limited and need longer cool-down periods. @*

@node Feed list display settings
@section Feed list display settings

@vindex infovore-list-format
The user option @code{infovore-list-format} controls the columns displayed in @*
the feed list buffer.  Each element is a list of @code{(FIELD WIDTH
SORTABLE-P)}.  The default value is: @*

@lisp
'((:source 6 t) (:author 20 t) (:title 0 t) (:score 5 t) (:time 12 t))
@end lisp

Available fields are @code{:source} (type icon), @code{:author}, @code{:title}, @*
@code{:score} (relevance), and @code{:time} (relative timestamp).  A width of @code{0} @*
means the column expands to fill available space.  You can reorder, @*
remove, or resize columns to suit your workflow. @*

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Opening the feed::
* Starting and stopping::
* Manual fetching::
* Feed list commands::
* Refreshing and filtering::
* Item detail commands::
* Mode line indicator::
@end menu

@node Opening the feed
@section Opening the feed

@findex infovore
The command @code{infovore} is the main entry point.  It opens (or switches @*
to) the @samp{*infovore*} buffer, which displays the curated feed list.  On @*
first invocation it initializes the database and instantiates source @*
objects from @code{infovore-sources}.  Subsequent calls simply switch to the @*
existing buffer and refresh the displayed items. @*

This command does not start the automatic fetch timer.  To begin @*
periodic fetching, call @code{infovore-start} separately @*
(@ref{Starting and stopping}). @*

@node Starting and stopping
@section Starting and stopping

@findex infovore-start
@findex infovore-stop
The command @code{infovore-start} activates the automatic fetch timer.  It @*
instantiates all configured sources, opens the database, and schedules @*
periodic fetch cycles at the interval specified by @*
@code{infovore-fetch-interval} (@ref{Scheduling settings}).  The first fetch cycle @*
runs immediately.  If a timer is already active, it is cancelled and @*
replaced.  A confirmation message is displayed in the echo area. @*

The command @code{infovore-stop} cancels the automatic fetch timer.  It does @*
not close the database or destroy the feed list buffer; it simply stops @*
future fetch cycles from being scheduled. @*

@node Manual fetching
@section Manual fetching

@findex infovore-fetch-now
The command @code{infovore-fetch-now} triggers an immediate fetch cycle @*
outside the normal timer schedule.  If a fetch cycle is already in @*
progress, it displays a message and does nothing.  This is useful for @*
pulling in new content on demand without waiting for the next scheduled @*
cycle.  It is also bound to @samp{G} in the feed list @*
(@ref{Feed list commands}). @*

@node Feed list commands
@section Feed list commands

@findex infovore-list-show-item
@findex infovore-list-browse-url
@findex infovore-list-toggle-read
@findex infovore-list-toggle-starred
@findex infovore-list-refresh
@findex infovore-list-show-all
@findex infovore-list-show-curated
The following commands are available in @code{infovore-list-mode}, the major @*
mode for the @samp{*infovore*} feed list buffer. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-show-item}, bound to @samp{RET}, opens the item at @*
point in the detail view below the feed list @*
(@ref{Item detail commands}).  If no item is at point, it signals an error. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-browse-url}, bound to @samp{b}, opens the original @*
URL of the item at point in the default web browser via @code{browse-url}. @*
If the item has no URL, it signals an error. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-toggle-read}, bound to @samp{r}, toggles the @*
read/unread state of the item at point.  The new state is persisted to @*
the database immediately and the list is refreshed to update the visual @*
styling.  Read items are displayed with @code{infovore-read-face} (inherits @*
from @code{shadow}), making them visually dimmed. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-toggle-starred}, bound to @samp{s}, toggles the @*
starred state of the item at point.  Starred items are displayed with @*
@code{infovore-starred-face} (inherits from @code{warning}, bold).  The state is @*
persisted to the database immediately. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-refresh}, bound to @samp{g}, re-queries the @*
database and repopulates the list.  In the default curated view, it @*
shows only items where @code{curated} is true and @code{score} is at or above @*
@code{infovore-relevance-threshold}.  In the ``show all'' view, it displays @*
every item regardless of curation status. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-show-all}, bound to @samp{+}, switches the feed @*
list to display all items including uncurated ones.  This is useful for @*
reviewing everything that has been fetched. @*

The command @code{infovore-list-show-curated}, bound to @samp{-}, switches back to @*
the default curated view, showing only items that have been scored and @*
meet the relevance threshold. @*

The full keymap for @code{infovore-list-mode}: @*

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@item @samp{RET}
@tab @code{infovore-list-show-item}
@item @samp{b}
@tab @code{infovore-list-browse-url}
@item @samp{r}
@tab @code{infovore-list-toggle-read}
@item @samp{s}
@tab @code{infovore-list-toggle-starred}
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{infovore-list-refresh}
@item @samp{G}
@tab @code{infovore-fetch-now}
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@item @samp{S}
@tab @code{infovore-ebib-save}
@item @samp{+}
@tab @code{infovore-list-show-all}
@item @samp{-}
@tab @code{infovore-list-show-curated}
@item @samp{n}
@tab @code{next-line}
@item @samp{p}
@tab @code{previous-line}
@end multitable

@node Refreshing and filtering
@section Refreshing and filtering

@findex infovore-list-refresh
The command @code{infovore-list-refresh} queries the database and rebuilds the @*
feed list.  The query depends on the current view mode: @*

@itemize
@item
In the default curated view, items are filtered to those where @*
@code{curated} is true and @code{score} is at or above @*
@code{infovore-relevance-threshold} (@ref{AI curation settings}). @*
@item
In the ``show all'' view (toggled with @samp{+}), all items are shown. @*
@end itemize

In both cases, items are sorted by timestamp in descending order (newest @*
first).  After refreshing, the item count is displayed in the echo area. @*

@node Item detail commands
@section Item detail commands

@findex infovore-show-item
@findex infovore-show-toggle-view
@findex infovore-show-browse-url
@findex infovore-show-next
@findex infovore-show-prev
The following commands are available in @code{infovore-show-mode}, the major @*
mode for the @samp{*infovore-entry*} detail buffer. @*

The function @code{infovore-show-item} opens an item in the detail view.  It @*
creates or reuses the @samp{*infovore-entry*} buffer, displays it in a @*
window below the current one (occupying 40% of the frame height), and @*
renders the item's summary by default.  The header section shows the @*
title, author, source type, date, score, and a clickable URL@. @*

The command @code{infovore-show-toggle-view}, bound to @samp{TAB} and @samp{t}, @*
toggles between the summary and original content views.  In summary @*
mode, the AI-generated summary is displayed as plain text.  In original @*
mode, the full content is rendered --- HTML content is processed through @*
@samp{shr} for rich display, while plain text is inserted directly. @*

The command @code{infovore-show-browse-url}, bound to @samp{b}, opens the current @*
item's URL in the default web browser. @*

The command @code{infovore-show-next}, bound to @samp{n}, advances point in the @*
feed list window to the next line and displays that item in the detail @*
view.  This allows you to read through items sequentially without @*
switching back to the list buffer. @*

The command @code{infovore-show-prev}, bound to @samp{p}, moves to the previous @*
item in the feed list and displays it. @*

The full keymap for @code{infovore-show-mode}: @*

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@item @samp{TAB}
@tab @code{infovore-show-toggle-view}
@item @samp{t}
@tab @code{infovore-show-toggle-view}
@item @samp{b}
@tab @code{infovore-show-browse-url}
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@item @samp{n}
@tab @code{infovore-show-next}
@item @samp{p}
@tab @code{infovore-show-prev}
@end multitable

@node Mode line indicator
@section Mode line indicator

@findex infovore-mode-line-mode
@findex infovore-modeline-update
The global minor mode @code{infovore-mode-line-mode} adds an indicator to the @*
mode line showing the count of unread curated items.  When enabled, the @*
mode line displays @samp{[IV:N]} where @emph{N} is the number of unread curated @*
items.  When there are unread items, the indicator uses @*
@code{infovore-modeline-active-face} (bold, amber foreground); when the count @*
is zero, it uses the default @code{infovore-modeline-face}. @*

Enable it in your init file: @*

@lisp
(infovore-mode-line-mode 1)
@end lisp

The count is updated automatically after each fetch cycle.  You can also @*
call @code{infovore-modeline-update} manually to refresh the count from the @*
database at any time. @*

@node Functions
@chapter Functions

@menu
* Database management::
* Item storage and retrieval::
* Token budget tracking::
* AI scoring pipeline::
* URL normalization and deduplication::
* Logging::
* Fetch with retry::
* Source protocol::
@end menu

@node Database management
@section Database management

@findex infovore-db-ensure
@findex infovore-db-close
The function @code{infovore-db-ensure} opens the database connection if it is @*
not already open and creates the required tables and indexes if they do @*
not exist.  It returns the active @samp{emacsql} connection object.  This @*
function is called automatically by most other database functions and by @*
@code{infovore} and @code{infovore-start}, so you rarely need to call it directly. @*

The function @code{infovore-db-close} closes the database connection if it is @*
open.  You might call this if you need to move or replace the database @*
file while Emacs is running. @*

@node Item storage and retrieval
@section Item storage and retrieval

@findex infovore-db-insert-item
@findex infovore-db-update-item
@findex infovore-db-get-item
@findex infovore-db-item-exists-p
@findex infovore-db-query-items
@findex infovore-db-uncurated-items
@findex infovore-db-count-unread-curated
The function @code{infovore-db-insert-item} inserts an @code{infovore-item} struct @*
into the database.  It uses @samp{INSERT OR IGNORE} semantics, so attempting @*
to insert an item with a duplicate ID is silently skipped.  This is the @*
mechanism behind infovore's URL-based deduplication. @*

The function @code{infovore-db-update-item} updates specific fields of an @*
existing item identified by its ID@.  It accepts a plist of field-value @*
pairs (e.g. @code{:score 0.8 :summary "..."}).  Boolean fields (@code{:read-p}, @*
@code{:starred-p}, @code{:curated-p}) are automatically converted to integers for @*
storage. @*

The function @code{infovore-db-get-item} retrieves a single item by ID and @*
returns it as an @code{infovore-item} struct, or @code{nil} if not found. @*

The function @code{infovore-db-item-exists-p} returns non-nil if an item with @*
the given ID exists in the database.  This is used during fetch cycles @*
to skip already-known items without loading their full content. @*

The function @code{infovore-db-query-items} is the general-purpose query @*
function.  It accepts keyword arguments for filtering: @code{:curated-only}, @*
@code{:min-score}, @code{:source-id}, @code{:source-type}, @code{:limit}, @code{:offset}, and @*
@code{:order-by}.  It returns a list of @code{infovore-item} structs.  The feed @*
list view uses this function to populate its display @*
(@ref{Refreshing and filtering}). @*

The function @code{infovore-db-uncurated-items} returns items where @*
@code{curated} is false, ordered by fetch time (oldest first).  It accepts an @*
optional @code{limit} argument.  The AI curation pipeline uses this function @*
to find items that need scoring @*
(@ref{AI scoring pipeline}). @*

The function @code{infovore-db-count-unread-curated} returns the count of @*
items that are both curated and unread.  The mode line indicator uses @*
this to display the unread count @*
(@ref{Mode line indicator}). @*

@node Token budget tracking
@section Token budget tracking

@findex infovore-db-get-budget-tokens
@findex infovore-db-add-budget-tokens
@findex infovore-ai-budget-exhausted-p
The function @code{infovore-db-get-budget-tokens} returns the number of @*
tokens used on a given date (specified as a @samp{"YYYY-MM-DD"} string).  It @*
returns @code{0} if no entry exists for that date. @*

The function @code{infovore-db-add-budget-tokens} adds a token count to the @*
budget for a given date.  It uses upsert semantics: if no row exists for @*
the date, one is created; otherwise the amount is added to the existing @*
total. @*

The function @code{infovore-ai-budget-exhausted-p} returns non-nil when the @*
daily token budget has been fully consumed.  The curation pipeline @*
checks this before scoring each item and stops early when it returns @*
non-nil (@ref{AI curation settings}). @*

@node AI scoring pipeline
@section AI scoring pipeline

@findex infovore-ai-score-item
@findex infovore-ai-curate-pending
The function @code{infovore-ai-score-item} scores a single @code{infovore-item} @*
asynchronously using @samp{gptel}.  It constructs a prompt from the user's @*
interest profile and the item's content, sends it to the AI backend, and @*
calls a callback with a cons cell @code{(score . summary)} on success, or @*
@code{nil} on failure.  Scoring is skipped (callback called with @code{nil}) in @*
three cases: the interest profile is empty, the daily token budget is @*
exhausted, or the item has neither title nor content.  Content longer @*
than 4000 characters is truncated before being sent. @*

The function @code{infovore-ai-curate-pending} processes all uncurated items @*
sequentially.  For each item, it calls @code{infovore-ai-score-item}, and @*
on success updates the item's score, summary, and curated status in the @*
database.  Processing stops early if the token budget is exhausted. @*
When all items have been processed (or the budget runs out), it calls a @*
callback with the count of items successfully scored.  The main fetch @*
cycle calls this function after inserting newly fetched items @*
(@ref{Manual fetching}). @*

@node URL normalization and deduplication
@section URL normalization and deduplication

@findex infovore-normalize-url
The function @code{infovore-normalize-url} normalizes a URL for @*
deduplication purposes.  It lowercases the scheme and host, strips @*
trailing slashes from the path, removes @samp{utm_*} tracking query @*
parameters, and preserves fragments.  The normalized URL serves as the @*
item's unique ID in the database, ensuring that the same article reached @*
via different tracking links is not stored twice. @*

@node Logging
@section Logging

@findex infovore-log
@vindex infovore-log-buffer-name
The function @code{infovore-log} writes a timestamped, level-tagged message to @*
the @samp{*infovore-log*} buffer.  The level argument is one of @code{info}, @*
@code{warn}, or @code{error}.  All significant events throughout infovore --- @*
fetch attempts, parse results, AI scoring, budget exhaustion, errors --- @*
are logged through this function.  The log buffer is useful for @*
diagnosing fetch failures, understanding why items were skipped, and @*
monitoring token usage. @*

The variable @code{infovore-log-buffer-name} holds the name of the log @*
buffer.  Its default value is @samp{"*infovore-log*"}. @*

@node Fetch with retry
@section Fetch with retry

@findex infovore-fetch-with-retry
The function @code{infovore-fetch-with-retry} fetches a URL asynchronously @*
with exponential backoff retry.  On success, it calls the callback with @*
the response buffer.  On final failure (after all retries), it calls @*
the callback with @code{nil}.  The number of retries defaults to @*
@code{infovore-max-retries} (@ref{Error handling settings}).  All source plugins use @*
this function for their HTTP requests, providing uniform retry behavior @*
across the package. @*

@node Source protocol
@section Source protocol

@findex infovore-source-fetch
@findex infovore-source-parse
The generic function @code{infovore-source-fetch} is the entry point for @*
fetching new items from a source.  It takes a source object and a @*
callback, and calls the callback asynchronously with a list of @*
@code{infovore-item} structs (or @code{nil} on failure).  Each source type @*
provides its own implementation of this method. @*

The generic function @code{infovore-source-parse} converts raw fetched data @*
(typically an XML parse tree or JSON alist) into a list of @*
@code{infovore-item} structs.  This is called internally by each source's @*
@code{infovore-source-fetch} implementation. @*

@node Ebib integration
@chapter Ebib integration

@findex infovore-ebib-save
@findex infovore-ebib-available-p
The optional module @samp{infovore-ebib.el} integrates infovore with @samp{ebib} @*
(the Emacs Bib@TeX{} database manager) and @samp{zotra} (a citation metadata @*
fetcher).  When both packages are installed, you can save an item's @*
bibliographic metadata directly to your @samp{ebib} database. @*

The command @code{infovore-ebib-save}, bound to @samp{S} in both @*
@code{infovore-list-mode} and @code{infovore-show-mode}, extracts the URL of the @*
item at point, passes it to @code{zotra-get-entry-from-url} to retrieve a @*
Bib@TeX{} entry, and imports the result into @samp{ebib} via @*
@code{ebib-import-entries}.  A confirmation message is displayed on success. @*

If either @samp{zotra} or @samp{ebib} is not installed, the command signals a @*
@code{user-error} explaining which package is missing.  The function @*
@code{infovore-ebib-available-p} returns non-nil when both packages are @*
loaded, which can be useful for conditionally binding keys or enabling @*
menu entries. @*

This module is loaded via @code{(require 'infovore-ebib nil t)} in the main @*
entry point, so it is silently skipped when its dependencies are absent. @*

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
